Adam Barton
IT191 
Assignment #1
1 September 2014

IT is a field in which you’re able to gain qualifications, without university education, for a variety of jobs. To gain the skills I will need, for one of the following entry level jobs upon graduation, I will need to make sure to take the necessary coursework, work on certifications outside of school, and to graduate. 

Certifications will play a critical role in advancing during my work in the entry level jobs. It will be necessary to continue my education and work towards my masters and then PHD.  By graduation I should have the following certifications: A+, Security+, Certified Ethical Hacker, Network+, and CCNA security. During my time at school I will need to keep my record safe and eligible for a Secret clearance. I will also need to keep my GPA above a 3.0 to be competitive and ideally above a 3.5 to feel safe. 

Being involved in IT clubs will help to solidify my resume and give me skills that I wouldn’t normally have gained through my college courses. They will also allow me to hone my skills and give me experience that may be necessary for entry level jobs. This will also give me a chance to network with alumni, other club members, and guest speakers. I believe that these clubs will also provide a resource for gaining relevant qualifications and help with building and maintaining your resume. 

•	Entry Level - Information Technology Development Program/Software Engineer 
o	NSA
•	Information Assurance Engineer - Jr Level 11730 
o	General Dynamics
•	Information Assurance Engineer I - (FedSys)
o	 Johnson Controls, Inc. 

	5-8 years after graduating I would ideally have completed my masters and/or doctorate towards information assurance, while keeping my certifications updated and current. I will need to have my CISSP and any other relevant certifications that come out.
	Keeping a Secret clearance will be necessary and means that I will have to keep my nose out of illegal things. Taking advantage of training within my prior companies, I will have kept up to date on current threats and innovations. At this point in my career I think that if I have progressed solidly through my prior job than I should have no trouble getting one of the following jobs. 

•	Information Assurance Specialist
o	Kratos
•	Sr. Information Assurance Analyst
o	Northrop Grumman
•	Information Security Engineer
o	Lockheed Martin
	
